---
layout: post
title:  "(HackTheBox Note) Responder"
date:   2022-04-15 14:19:31 +0900
categories: interests
---
Credits to *dotguy* from HTB. 🥂

##### Keywords : Responder utility, NetNTLMv2 hash, NTLM authentication,  Local File Inclusion (LFI) vulnerability, Remote File Inclusion, 

## Main Concept
### (Step 1) Enumeration with nmap
- nmap options to keep in mind

```
-v : Increase the verbosity level (basically output more info)
-p- : This flag scans for all TCP ports ranging from 0-65535
-sV : Attempts to determine the version of the service running on a port
-sC : Scan with default NSE scripts
--min-rate : This is used to specify the minimum number of packets Nmap should send per
second; it speeds up the scan as the number goes higher
```

open TCP ports:
```
PORT     STATE SERVICE VERSION
80/tcp   open  http    Apache httpd 2.4.52 ((Win64) OpenSSL/1.1.1m PHP/8.1.1)
| http-methods: 
|_  Supported Methods: GET HEAD POST OPTIONS
|_http-server-header: Apache/2.4.52 (Win64) OpenSSL/1.1.1m PHP/8.1.1
|_http-title: Site doesn't have a title (text/html; charset=UTF-8).
5985/tcp open  http    Microsoft HTTPAPI httpd 2.0 (SSDP/UPnP)
|_http-server-header: Microsoft-HTTPAPI/2.0
|_http-title: Not Found
Service Info: OS: Windows; CPE: cpe:/o:microsoft:windows
```
```
80 : Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) uses TCP in versions 1.x and 2. HTTP/3 uses QUIC, a transport protocol on top of UDP.
5985 : Windows PowerShell Default psSession Port Windows Remote Management Service (WinRM-HTTP)
```
### (Step 2) Website Enumeration
* entering `http://[target ip]` is not possible
* web server checks the domain name provided in the `Host` header field of the HTTP request
* `/etc/hosts` file is used *to resolve a hostname into an IP address*
* we will need to add an entry in
the `/etc/hosts` file for this domain to enable the browser to resolve the address for `unika.htb` .
* resolve address, with `/etc/hosts`
    ```
    $ echo "10.129.13.73 unika.htb" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts
    ```

### (Step 3) Looking into 'File Inclusion Vulnerability'
traverse through the URL:
```
http://unika.htb/index.php?
page=../../../../../../../../windows/system32/drivers/etc/hosts
```
#### (Step 3.1) Responder Challenge Capture

'Responder' tool; how does it work? \
Responder can do many different kinds of attacks, but for this scenario, *it will set up a malicious SMB server*.
- When the target machine attempts to *perform the NTLM authentication* to that server, 
    - Responder sends a challenge back for the server to encrypt with the user's password. 
- When the server responds, Responder
will use the challenge and the encrypted response to generate the NetNTLMv2. 
- While we can't reverse the
NetNTLMv2, we can try many different common passwords to see if any generate the same challenge
response, and if we find one, we know that is the password. 
    - This is often referred to as hash cracking, which we'll do with a program called John The Ripper.

in `Responder.conf`, confirm that `SMB = On` (set to listen for SMB requests)

```
[Responder Core]

; Servers to start
SQL = On
SMB = On
```


## Tools, Commands
* [Responder.py](https://github.com/SpiderLabs/Responder)


## More notes
- most organizations use *Active Directory* to set up their *Windows domain networks*.
- Microsoft employs NTLM (New Technology LAN Manager) & Kerberos for *authentication services*.
- *File Inclusion* vulnerability, on windows machines.
- **NTLMv2** (or more formally Net-NTLMv2) is a *challenge-response authentication protocol* that Windows clients use to authenticate to other Windows servers.
- TCP ports [source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_TCP_and_UDP_port_numbers)
- Windows Remote Management, or **WinRM**, is a Windows-native built-in remote management protocol
that basically uses Simple Object Access Protocol to interact with remote computers and servers, as well as Operating Systems and applications.
-  **Name-Based Virtual hosting** is a method for hosting multiple domain names (with separate handling of each name) on a single server. This *allows one server to share its resources, such as memory and processor cycles*, without requiring all the services to be used by the same hostname.
- resolve address (in computing)
- sanitization (in computing) : for security purposes, we protect the system from malicious data.
- `include()` method of PHP : The `include` statement takes all the text/code/markup that exists in the specified file and loads it into the
memory, making it available for use.
    - example
    ```
    File 1 --> vars.php
    <?php
    $color = 'green';
    $fruit = 'apple';
    ?>
    #############################################
    File 2 --> test.php
    <?php
    echo "A $color $fruit"; // output = "A"
    include 'vars.php';
    echo "A $color $fruit"; // output = "A green apple"
    ?>
    ```
- A **hash function** is a one way function that takes any amount of data and returns a fixed size value.
- An **NTHash** is the *output of the algorithm used to store passwords on Windows systems* in the SAM
database and on domain controllers.
- NTLM ; challenge / response model ; Challenge–response authentication
- to test with some **commonly known files** that will have the same name across networks, **Windows
domains**, and systems which can be found [here](https://github.com/carlospolop/Auto_Wordlists/blob/main/wordlists/file_inclusion_windows.txt).
- SMB URLs
- SMB server
- `python3` : `-I` option can be used to run the script in *isolated mode* where `sys.path` contains neither the current directory nor the user’s site-packages directory.
















Disclaimer : Some of the words here are not written by me. This page serves merely as my notes.
